[Music]
the road to success
and feel like one of those weird dreams
where you keep running and reaching out
towards something but it's constantly
moving further and further away at least
that's how I felt after years of
struggling with money living paycheck to
paycheck and just feeling miserable with
my lack of progress in life but then I
figured it all out my financial problems
stemmed from my poor mindset for me like
a lot of people it all started in school
I was always a good student I got
straight A's spent countless hours
memorizing a bunch of information so
that I'd passed that super important
exam that's going to decide my fate in
life the paralyzing fear of failing my
tests and getting in trouble with my
teachers or parents was enough to keep
my nose buried in my textbooks both in
the classroom and at home you know the
hours and hours of homework teachers
give you yep
I was studying around the clock but now
I understand that I was chained to a
desk in school just to learn how to be
chained to a desk at work in adulthood
only when you're growing up you worry
that your mistakes will earn you a
ticket to a lecture presented by none
other than your boss so that crippling
fear of failing doesn't go anywhere it's
already in you as a kid and it haunts
you into your adult life as well
basically school just teaches you to be
an obedient worker not a successful
person but how can that be are we
supposed to go to school for knowledge
and self betterment more knowledge
equals good grades good grades means a
college degree which then gets you a
high-paying job and boom you're rich and
successful we've been told that our
whole lives and it might be that way in
a perfect world but in reality that's
just not the way it goes down let me
explain one of my teachers was the first
adult who dared live
vail a bit for me he used to say passing
an exam is just returning borrowed
knowledge when he first said that my 17
year old brain had no clue what he was
talking about but now again memorizing
things doesn't make you knowledgeable I
mean think about a week or two after a
test that was so important to you do you
still remember any of that information
nope no because you learned it long
enough to pass a test and get a good
grade and that's it grades in school
teach us one thing you must strive for
the status of success you don't even
have to know what success really is you
need to get good grades not knowledge
there's a big difference between being
truly successful and having something
that people just associate with
prosperity here's a personal example
after I graduated from college I was
lucky enough to get a job the first
thing I did with my first paycheck was
to buy a brand new smartphone I spent
almost all my money on that thing my
student loan payment could wait till
next month right did I get a job and
earn money yeah did I act like a
successful person a thousand times no
and that happened to a lot of people
around me someone hit the jackpot in
life got tons of money but it didn't
make this person more prosperous the
money just came and went and that's
because money is associated with success
but real success is about sustaining
your wealth that's exactly what they
don't teach at school is about money the
end goal of your education is to make
you a good employee we learn how to
count sure but not in the context we
needed as adults I don't know about you
but I've never had 84 apples that I need
to divide among so many friends but I do
need to file my taxes pay off my debts
set up a 401k and
learn how to open a business but now
they don't teach you that stuff only
about two trains heading towards each
other
another thing about money is that we all
think it's about getting paid and again
that's just what we learn in school only
when you're a kid it's great not a
paycheck you work hard and you get
rewarded with a good grade you make
mistakes or don't study hard enough and
you get punished with a bad grade you
fail oh that's the scariest word when
you're a student well can i retake the
test
what about extra credit please please
please I can't fail this class and of
course failure is the biggest thing you
avoid as an adult because it's been
cemented into your brain but guess what
failure is a good thing yeah you heard
me right again personal experience here
because I'd always thought that failure
is bad and scary I couldn't make myself
think of overcoming it and dealing with
obstacles that cause me to fail when I
was short on money and wanted something
I thought to myself I can't afford it
when I met with some problem I'd
immediately think I can't do it I'd make
up excuses that I don't have the time
energy know-how you name it and this is
that poor mindset that I mentioned
earlier when you make these sorts of
statements you're putting a period on
your thinking process and that's exactly
what you shouldn't be doing try fail and
immediately start thinking of ways to
get better but we're naturally afraid to
take risks that's just how our minds
work it's better to accept defeat then
waste more of our precious resources on
a problem that we once failed to solve
that's why you have to reprogram your
brain and get it out of this poor
mindset try to remember that your
thoughts are what define you as a person
the moment you say I don't have enough
money time or skills you become what
you're talking about
instead of making these finalizing
statements that prevent you from taking
a risk or further productive thinking
you can always ask yourself a question
instead what can I do to having a
money how can I save some time for
what's important to me now what do I
need to learn to do better next time
unlike statements that hold you back
questions move you forward that's what I
know for sure now it may seem like I'm
holding some grudge against the
educational system but it's not like
that at all because I know another
important rule do not blame anything or
anyone for your shortcomings again
that's just negative thinking creeping
up into your head I can't tell you how
many times I've heard stuff like well
school didn't teach me anything or the
system wants you to stay dumb and poor
so if any of my friends are
acquaintances say something like that I
just ask them how is blaming someone
else supposed to help you in your own
life and they never can answer me yes
schools don't teach you about money
business smarts and all that jazz but
that doesn't mean you can't learn these
things on your own yeah but you need
money to take a course hey there's a
world of free information out there so
what's stopping you from doing your
research being mad at abstract things is
easy but taking responsibility to deal
with a problem is more effective than
just complaining about it
this is just another thing that I've
learned and one last thought I'd like to
share with you is the importance of not
being greedy believe it or not some of
the greediest people I've ever met were
actually pretty poor and unsuccessful in
life greed comes from the same fear of
loss and failure that I mentioned
earlier the richest people in the world
they don't work for money they work for
an idea knowledge and a desire to create
something or become better at it so one
day I decided to adopt a positive
outlook on things and only do what I
love I cut my budget almost in half and
got so involved in work I was passionate
about that I truly became successful
even without tons of money although that
actually started to come my way not too
long after that but those are just my
thoughts and personal experience what
about you what do you think the secrets
to becoming successful
let's compare ideas down in the comments
if you found this video helpful then
give it a thumbs up share it with your
friends and click that subscribe button
to stay on the bright side of life
[Music]
you